#92 validation by server side plugin (#95)
confuser/graphql-constraint-directive: README.md

```

## Usage

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to make use of the constraint directive in your project. Below outlines the benefits and caveats. Please choose the most appropriate to your use case.
```

### Schema wrapper

Implementation based on schema wrappers - basic scalars are wrapped as custom scalars with validations. 

> Pros:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Benefits
```

Can we rename these to Benefits/Caveats instead of pros/cons?

Author: Sure thing

> * posibility to validate output

Reviewer: @velias what do you mean by output in this context? Can this be elaborated?

Author: If I understand it correctly, that wrapper implementation is capable to validate output values returned from GraphQL query - directive is allowed at FIELD_DEFINITION.
Or did I misunderstood something?

Reviewer: @velias can a test case be added to confirm? Would also be great to explain this further with an example as it wasn't clear to me what this meant

Author: But it is not feature added in this PR, schema wrapper is your implementation :-)

Author: OK, in reality there are tests for this feature, in `int.test.js` and `float.test.js` and `string.test.js`

Author: I improved wording to be much clearer (I hope)

```

### Server plugin

> Implementation based on server plugin. Implementation entry point is function `validateQuery(schema, query, variables, operationName)`.

Reviewer: Is there a link to documentation to help provide more context/information on `validateQuery`?

Author: Nope, I think it is self-explanatory :-D

Reviewer: @velias I'm not sure what this refers to, I'm presuming some low level JavaScript GraphQL API? Would be good to provide more context for those who are more familiar with higher level abstractions

Author: Ah, ok. It is my function in `index.js` which is then used to create plugins (Apollo and Envelop). So maybe some better wording should be there, with info that this method can be used to build other plugins?

Author: I improved wording to be much clearer (I hope)

Pros:
* schema stays unmodified

Cons:
* validates only inputs

> #### Envelop plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Envelop
```

Author: :+1:

> You can use [Envelop plugin](https://www.envelop.dev), for example in Yoga server, but also anywhere in Envelop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use as an [Envelop plugin](https://www.envelop.dev) in supported frameworks, e.g. [GraphQL Yoga](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/)
```

Author: :+1:

Functionality is plugged in `execute` phase.

```js
const { createEnvelopQueryValidationPlugin, constraintDirectiveTypeDefs } = require('graphql-constraint-directive')
const express = require('express')
const { createServer } = require('@graphql-yoga/node')
const { makeExecutableSchema } = require('@graphql-tools/schema')

const typeDefs = `
  type Query {
    books: [Book]
  }
  type Book {
    title: String
  }
  type Mutation {
    createBook(input: BookInput): Book
  }
  input BookInput {
    title: String! @constraint(minLength: 5, format: "email")
  }`

let schema = makeExecutableSchema({
  typeDefs: [constraintDirectiveTypeDefs, typeDefs],
})

const app = express()

const yoga = createServer({
    schema,
    plugins: [createEnvelopQueryValidationPlugin()],
    graphiql: false
})

app.use('/', yoga)

app.listen(4000);
```

> #### Apollo server plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Apollo Server
```

Author: :+1:

> In [Apollo server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) you can use apollo plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/) plugin
```

Author: :+1:

```js
const { createApolloQueryValidationPlugin, constraintDirectiveTypeDefs } = require('graphql-constraint-directive')
const express = require('express')
const { ApolloServer } = require('apollo-server-express')
const { makeExecutableSchema } = require('@graphql-tools/schema')

const typeDefs = `
  type Query {
    books: [Book]
  }
  type Book {
    title: String
  }
  type Mutation {
    createBook(input: BookInput): Book
  }
  input BookInput {
    title: String! @constraint(minLength: 5, format: "email")
  }`

let schema = makeExecutableSchema({
  typeDefs: [constraintDirectiveTypeDefs, typeDefs],
})

const plugins = [
  createApolloQueryValidationPlugin({
    schema
  })
]

const app = express()
const server = new ApolloServer({ 
  schema,
  plugins
})

await server.start()

server.applyMiddleware({ app })
```

> #### Validation Rule in Express

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Express
```

> You can also use [Validation rule](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/validation/), but only in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a [Validation rule](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/validation/) where query `variables` are available 
```

Author: :+1:

> server where query `variables` are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: :+1:

app.use('/graphql', bodyParser.json(), graphqlExpress({ schema, formatError }))

```

> Apollo server plugin throws [`UserInputError`](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/data/errors/#bad_user_input) for each validatin error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Apollo Server
Throws a [`UserInputError`](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/data/errors/#bad_user_input) for each validation error

#### Envelop
The Envelop plugin throws a prefilled `GraphQLError` for each validation error
```

Author: :+1:

> Envelop plugin throws prefilled `GraphQLError` for each validation error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: :+1:

### uniqueTypeName
```@constraint(uniqueTypeName: "Unique_Type_Name")```
Override the unique type name generate by the library to the one passed as an argument. 

> Has meaning only for `Schema wrapper` implementation.

Reviewer: Can we provide more context here? I.e. what is schema wrapper, e.g. Apollo etc

Author: Schema wrapper based implementation is described above. I don't think it is necessary to repeat it here.
